README.md, before:

[![Laird Connectivity](docs/images/LairdConnnectivityLogo_Horizontal_RGB.png)](https://www.lairdconnect.com/)

# Pinnacle 100 Modem and MG100 Firmware

[![Pinnacle 100 Modem](docs/images/pinnacle_100_modem.png)](https://www.lairdconnect.com/wireless-modules/cellular-solutions/pinnacle-100-cellular-modem) [![Pinnacle 100 DVK](docs/images/450-00010-K1-Contents_0.jpg)](https://www.lairdconnect.com/wireless-modules/cellular-solutions/pinnacle-100-cellular-modem) [![MG100](docs/images/MG100-Starter-Kit.png)](https://www.lairdconnect.com/iot-devices/iot-gateways/sentrius-mg100-gateway-lte-mnb-iot-and-bluetooth-5)

This repository contains firmware that can run on the Pinnacle 100 Modem development kit (DVK) or the Sentrius MG100 gateway. This firmware is designed to showcase gathering sensor data over BLE and transferring it to the cloud. The AWS Out-of-Box (OOB) Demo firmware for both products connects to the Laird Connectivity Bluegrass Cloud portal by default. However it can be reconfigured over the UART with mcumgr to provision the device to connect to any AWS server.

The Pinnacle 100 modem can be purchased separately as a device that OEMs embed into their end product. The same Pinnacle modem is pre-integrated by Laird Connectivity into the Sentrius MG100 Gateway. The MG100 is an out-of-the-box product allowing the end user to develop a fully featured IoT solution with minimum effort. With the addition of the optional battery backup, it provides uninterrupted reporting of sensor data. Additionally the sensor data is logged locally on an SD card to ensure data is captured even if the LTE connection is interrupted. Based on Laird Connectivity's Pinnacle 100 modem, the Sentrius MG100 Gateway captures data from Bluetooth 5 sensors and sends it to the cloud via a global low power cellular (LTE-M/NB-IoT) connection. It is based on the innovative integration of Nordic Semiconductor nRF52840 and the Sierra Wireless HL7800 module. This enables the MG100 hardware to support LTE-M/NB-IoT (supports LTE bands 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 12, 13, 20, and 28) as well as Bluetooth 5 features like CODED PHY, 2M PHY, and LE Advertising Extensions.

A version of the MG100 firmware can be built to support contact tracing applications with the appropriate Laird Connectivity Contact Tracing BLE product (Sentrius BT510-CT and Sentrius BT710). Please contact your local Sales representative to find out further details on these sensors - sales@lairdconnect.com

> **Note:** This readme file and associated documentation should be viewed on GitHub selecting the desired branch. The main branch will always be up to date with the latest features. Viewing documentation from a release GA branch is recommended to get documentation for the specific feature set of that release.

The firmware can operate in three modes:

- [LTE-M and AWS](#lte-m-and-aws)
- [LTE-M, AWS, and Contact Tracing](#lte-m-aws-and-contact-tracing)
- [NB-IoT and LwM2M](#nb-iot-and-lwm2m)

These two modes are selected at compile time. See the following sections for documentation on the firmware and how it operates.

Download firmware releases from [here!](https://github.com/LairdCP/Pinnacle-100-Firmware/releases)

## LTE-M and AWS

The default [build with mcuboot task](.vscode/tasks.json) is setup to build the firmware source code for LTE-M and AWS operation. [Read here](docs/readme_ltem_aws.md) for details on how the firmware operates.

## LTE-M, AWS, and Contact Tracing

This configuration [build ct with mcuboot task](.vscode/tasks.json) builds Laird Connectivity's Contact Tracing application. Read more about Laird Connectivity's contact tracing application [here.](docs/contact_tracing.md)

## NB-IoT and LwM2M

The firmware can be compiled to work with NB-IoT and LwM2M communication to the cloud with the `build lwm2m` task in [tasks.json](.vscode/tasks.json).

For more details on the LwM2M firmware, [read here](docs/readme_nbiot_lwm2m.md).

## Firmware Updates

If the Pinnacle 100 device is running v2.0.0 firmware or earlier, firmware updates must be programmed via SWD(Serial Wire Debug). There is no FOTA capability in the 2.x releases. To perform the update this way, please consult:

- MG100: the MG100 Hardware Guide section 5.4.4 to learn how to connect a J-Link debugger to the board.
- Pinnacle 100 DVK: The DVK has a built in debugger to easily program firmware.

Pinnacle 100 devices with firmware version 3.x or greater support firmware updates via UART, BLE or LTE. Updates via LTE on 3.x firmware must be initiated from the Laird Connectivity Bluegrass cloud portal. Only images hosted by Laird Connectivity are supported on the 3.x release. On 4.x releases, updates over HTTPS can be initiated for images hosted on any AWS server.

To update firmware with the Pinnacle Connect mobile app or via the Bluegrass cloud portal [see here.](docs/readme_ltem_aws.md#firmware-updates)

To update firmware over UART using the mcumgr CLI. This allows the user to update the device without any wireless connectivity. [see here.](docs/firmware_update.md)

To update firmware over HTTPS. Updates over HTTPS have been decoupled from Laird Connectivity's Bluegrass cloud portal. Images hosted on any AWS server can be downloaded. The details on how to trigger the update via the device shadow are available [here.](docs/cloud_fota.md)

## Development

### Cloning and Building the Source

This is a Zephyr-based repository, **DO NOT** `git clone` this repo. To clone and build the project properly, please see the instructions in the [Pinnacle 100 Firmware Manifest](https://github.com/LairdCP/Pinnacle-100-Firmware-Manifest) repository.

### BLE Profiles

Details on the BLE profiles used to interface with the mobile app can be found [here](docs/ble.md)

### Development and Debug

See [here](docs/development.md) for details on developing and debugging this app.

Commit message:

init readme for template code.
TODO

README.md, after:

[![Laird Connectivity](docs/images/LairdConnnectivityLogo_Horizontal_RGB.png)](https://www.lairdconnect.com/)

# Testing your own BLE sensor with MG100 on your own AWS

[![Pinnacle 100 Modem](docs/images/pinnacle_100_modem.png)](https://www.lairdconnect.com/wireless-modules/cellular-solutions/pinnacle-100-cellular-modem) [![Pinnacle 100 DVK](docs/images/450-00010-K1-Contents_0.jpg)](https://www.lairdconnect.com/wireless-modules/cellular-solutions/pinnacle-100-cellular-modem) [![MG100](docs/images/MG100-Starter-Kit.png)](https://www.lairdconnect.com/iot-devices/iot-gateways/sentrius-mg100-gateway-lte-mnb-iot-and-bluetooth-5)

## Introduction

This repository is modified from https://github.com/LairdCP/Pinnacle-100-Firmware so that MG100 can work with users' own BLE sensor on their own AWS IoT server. 

The original repository presents three following different applications and this page is mainly based off the first application ('LTE-M and AWS). 

- [LTE-M and AWS](#lte-m-and-aws)
- [LTE-M, AWS, and Contact Tracing](#lte-m-aws-and-contact-tracing)
- [NB-IoT and LwM2M](#nb-iot-and-lwm2m)

## Prerequisites
* [MG100](https://www.lairdconnect.com/iot-devices/iot-gateways/sentrius-mg100-gateway-lte-mnb-iot-and-bluetooth-5) with HL7800 firmware v4.3.14.0 or later
* Your own BLE sensor that broadcasts data in advert 
* Micro USB cable
* If using SWD for firmware upgrade : 
  * [Segger J-Link debugger](https://www.segger.com/products/debug-probes/j-link/models/model-overview/) (The J-Link Base or J-Link Base Compact is recommended) 
  * Programming adapter ([Tag-Connect TC2030-IDC](https://www.tag-connect.com/product/tc2030-idc-6-pin-tag-connect-plug-of-nails-spring-pin-cable-with-legs) and [ARM20-CTX Adapter](https://www.tag-connect.com/product/arm20-ctx-20-pin-to-tc2030-idc-adapter-for-cortex) are recommended) 

> **Note:** Firmware update can be done through UART, BLE or LTE as well as SWD(Serial Wire Debug) if MG100 is loaded with firmware version 3.x or later. If version 2.x is loaded, the firmware has to be upgraded via SWD. In general, it is strongly recommended to to SWD tools above for devleopment setup. 


## Firmware Updates

If the Pinnacle 100 device is running v2.0.0 firmware or earlier, firmware updates must be programmed via SWD(Serial Wire Debug). There is no FOTA capability in the 2.x releases. To perform the update this way, please consult:

- MG100: the MG100 Hardware Guide section 5.4.4 to learn how to connect a J-Link debugger to the board.
- Pinnacle 100 DVK: The DVK has a built in debugger to easily program firmware.

Pinnacle 100 devices with firmware version 3.x or greater support firmware updates via UART, BLE or LTE. Updates via LTE on 3.x firmware must be initiated from the Laird Connectivity Bluegrass cloud portal. Only images hosted by Laird Connectivity are supported on the 3.x release. On 4.x releases, updates over HTTPS can be initiated for images hosted on any AWS server.

To update firmware with the Pinnacle Connect mobile app or via the Bluegrass cloud portal [see here.](docs/readme_ltem_aws.md#firmware-updates)

To update firmware over UART using the mcumgr CLI. This allows the user to update the device without any wireless connectivity. [see here.](docs/firmware_update.md)

To update firmware over HTTPS. Updates over HTTPS have been decoupled from Laird Connectivity's Bluegrass cloud portal. Images hosted on any AWS server can be downloaded. The details on how to trigger the update via the device shadow are available [here.](docs/cloud_fota.md)

## Development

### Cloning and Building the Source

This is a Zephyr-based repository, **DO NOT** `git clone` this repo. To clone and build the project properly, please see the instructions in the [Pinnacle 100 Firmware Manifest](https://github.com/LairdCP/Pinnacle-100-Firmware-Manifest) repository.

### BLE Profiles

Details on the BLE profiles used to interface with the mobile app can be found [here](docs/ble.md)

### Development and Debug

See [here](docs/development.md) for details on developing and debugging this app.

## TODO 

code change + explanation 

firmware update 
- SWD
- UART
- HTTP
- BLE

Connect to AWS account
